There comes an occasion in every Javascript developers life where you will be
called onto write a function with **optional attributes**:

    var fn = function(a, b ...) {
      //do something with these attributes
    };
    
    fn(...);

### Default Variable Method
The first method we’re going to look at is how to assign a default value to an 
attribute:

    var fn = function(a) {
      a = a || "Default Value";
    };
    
    fn();

This method accepts two attributes, **a** and **b**, of which **b** will be 
assigned a **Default Value** if **b** does not have a value.

Note, the problem with this method is if b accepts a false-y value, ie **0** or 
**null**. To accomodate for this situation you may want to do the following:

    var fn = function(a) {
      a = (typeof a === "undefined") ? "Default Value" : a;
    };
    
    fn();

This method also accepts two attributes, **a** and **b**, except in this case we
use a ternary operator to check the type of **b**, and in the case the variable 
is not set - or **undefined** - it’s assigned **Default Value**.

### Optional Variable (Array) Method
The second method we’re going to look at, and the namesake of this article, is 
how to accept optional variables:

    var fn = function(args) {
      for(var key in args) {
        //loop through args[key]
      }
    };
    
    fn({a: 1, b: 2});

This is a popular pattern in which an attribute, **args**, is used to pass on an
array of variables. This array can then be iterated through as required.

The problem with this method is it still requires 1 or more attributes. 
What if we require a 0 or more attribute method?

### Optional Variable (Attributes) Method
This last method we’re going to look at solves this problem:

    var fn = function() {
      for(var key in arguments) {
        //loop through arguments[key]
      }
    }
    
    fn(a, b, c);

A useful feature of Javascript functions is the inclusion of an **arguments** 
variable which has is an array of all variables passed to the function.

### Node.JS Pattern
A handy pattern in node.js is the ability to accept an optional first variable 
aswell as a required **callback** function. To do this, we utilise the **
Optional Variable (Attributes) Method**.

    var fn = function(callback) {
      var id = "Default Value";
      
      if("function" === typeof arguments[1]) {
        id = arguments[0];
        callback = arguments[1];
      }
      
      callback();
    };
    
    fn(function() {
      //callback
    });
    
    //OR
    
    fn(1, function() {
      //callback
    });

In this method we accept a required **callback** function, which can either be 
the first or second attribute. We test which attribute this function is by using
a type comparison of the second item in **arguments**. This way, we can either 
accept a **callback** or a **callback** and an **id**.

As you can see this pattern can be extremely useful when utilising asynchronous 
callbacks.

Note, when using this method it is usually standard, although not required, to 
define the required variable in the function declaration (**function (callback)
**), as we’ve done in our example. In which case be careful not to run into the 
following problem:

    if("function" === typeof arguments[1]) {
      callback = arguments[1];
      id = arguments[0];
    }

Have you spotted the problem? The variable in **arguments[0]** is actually a 
reference to the **callback** variable due to the function declaration. In this 
case both **id** and **callback** will end up referencing the passed function.
