**There are many &#8220;beginners guide to node.js tutorials&#8221; out there. 
This is the first in a series of article about where to go next exploring the 
fundamental principles behind node.js.**

One of the fundamental principles of node.js is the concept of events revolving 
around the single threaded event loop. Consider it a core abstraction of the 
Publish/Subscribe pattern. As such, the EventEmitter module becomes a very 
important tool to control the flow of your application.
    
### EventEmitter
EventEmitter allows you to bind callback anonymous functions to events and 
listen for emitted events. You can bind the callback to only the first event 
emitted or to all events.

    var EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;
    var eventEmitter = new EventEmitter();

    eventEmitter.on('testEvent', function (message) {
      console.log(message);
    });

    eventEmitter.emit('testEvent', 'test message');
    
After creating an EventEmitter object, you can listen for an event using the on 
method and then execute the corresponding callback. AddListener is also an alias
of the on method. This function takes as its signature a message that can be 
emitted with an event.

To create an event we use the emit method, which takes the name of an event and 
its message as arguments.
    
### Remove Event Listeners
We can also stop an EventEmitter from listening for an event.

    var EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;
    var eventEmitter = new EventEmitter();
    
    eventEmitter.on('testEvent', function(message) {
      console.log(message);
      
      this.removeAllListeners('testEvent');
    });
    
    eventEmitter.emit('testEvent', 'test message');
    eventEmitter.emit('testEvent', 'test message');

This example will run once and then remove all listeners from the EventEmitter. 
The second emitted event will not trigger the callback function.

Rather than removing all listeners attached to the EventEmitter you can also 
remove individual listeners.

    eventEmitter.removeListener('testEvent', function(message) {
      console.log(message);
    });

### Run Event Listener Once
There is also a built in method to reduce the above example, by listening for 
only the first occurance of an event.

    eventEmitter.once('testEvent', function(message) {
      console.log(message);
    });

### Maximum Listeners
EventEmitter will only listen to a maximum of 10 events by default. This is to 
prevent potential memory leaks. It is possible to increase this limit.

    eventEmitter.setMaxListeners(100);
